---
title: Configure activation and deactivation of linters within MegaLinter
description: You can enable, disable, make not blocking, allow a minimum number of errors...
---
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
<!-- @generated by .automation/build.py, please don't update manually -->
<!-- config-activation-section-start -->

# Activation and deactivation

MegaLinter has all linters enabled by default, but allows enabling or disabling specific ones.

- If `ENABLE` isn't set, all descriptors are activated by default. If set, all linters of listed descriptors are activated by default.
- If `ENABLE_LINTERS` is set, only the listed linters are processed.
- If `DISABLE` is set, the linters in the listed descriptors are skipped.
- If `DISABLE_LINTERS` is set, the listed linters are skipped.
- If a linter is in both `ENABLE_LINTERS` and `DISABLE_LINTERS`, `ENABLE_LINTERS` wins by default. Set `ENABLE_DISABLE_LINTERS_PRIORITY: DISABLE` to make `DISABLE_LINTERS` override `ENABLE_LINTERS` instead (useful to trim an inherited `ENABLE_LINTERS` list when using `EXTENDS`).
- If `DISABLE_ERRORS_LINTERS` is set, the listed linters will run, but if errors are found, they will be considered non-blocking.
- If `ENABLE_ERRORS_LINTERS` is set, only the linters in this list will be considered blocking.


Examples:

- Run all javascript and groovy linters except STANDARD javascript linter. DevSkim errors will be non-blocking

```yaml
ENABLE: JAVASCRIPT,GROOVY
DISABLE_LINTERS: JAVASCRIPT_STANDARD
DISABLE_ERRORS_LINTERS: REPOSITORY_DEVSKIM
```

- Run all matching linters but only trivy is blocking

```yaml
ENABLE_ERRORS_LINTERS: REPOSITORY_TRIVY
```

- Run all linters except PHP linters (PHP_BUILTIN, PHP_PHPCS, PHP_PHPSTAN, PHP_PSALM)

```yaml
DISABLE: PHP
```

- Run all linters except PHP_PHPSTAN and PHP_PSALM linters

```yaml
DISABLE_LINTERS:
  - PHP_PHPSTAN
  - PHP_PSALM
```

- Inherit a shared `ENABLE_LINTERS` list via `EXTENDS` but skip one of the inherited linters locally

```yaml
EXTENDS: https://example.com/shared/.mega-linter.yml
ENABLE_DISABLE_LINTERS_PRIORITY: DISABLE
DISABLE_LINTERS:
  - PYTHON_PYLINT
```


<!-- config-activation-section-end -->
